Terrorism -- Crime or Conscience?

The question must be asked: is the global rise of terrorism a haphazard response
to a decimated economy or is there a pattern? Does UNATCO face coordinated
ideological opposition?
Some groups -- Silhouette in France, for instance -- have declared a "Meme War,"
or "war of meanings" in their terminology. They spread email and pamphlets that
lampoon the U.N.'s proposal for a one-world democracy, a tedious exercise in
rudimentary propaganda. With sophistries and doublespeak, they portray "freedom"
as "obedience," "democracy" as "tyranny," and UNATCO as the perpetrator of
terrorism -- an idea as shocking as it is reprehensible.
Other organizations, such as the self-proclaimed revolutionary National
Seccessionist Forces (NSF) in the U.S., claim allegiance to the Meme War, but
are in fact no better than common criminals. They desire territory and wealth at
the expense of society at large. Their "civil war" is merely a smokescreen for
criminal activity.
Any population can be quickly turned against such "revolutionaries" simply by
educating them about the U.N.'s policies and goals.
-- Joseph Manderley, Director, UNATCO

Terrorism -- Threat Profiling

Symbolic attacks -- the Statue of Liberty bombing, the desecration of Soviet War
Memorial in Berlin, the department-store shooting-sprees on Orchard Road in
Singapore -- are the recourse of the weak. They serve only to call attention to
a group or cause that is of no more than marginal interest to the public.
But what distinguishes true terrorist activity is its gradual escalation towards
genuine acts of war. Fringe groups now have access to technology that allows
direct assaults on governments, including the classic trio of nuclear,
biological, or chemical weaponry (NBC). But aside from direct assaults on a
nation and its people, indirect attacks can cause considerable collateral damage
-- rogue software can disrupt financial markets, communications, and military
operations, while encryption programs allow terrorists to coordinate smuggling
operations in secret right over the Net! Drugs, guns, illegal immigrants, and
even heavy equipment such as armored vehicles and cruise missiles are routinely
traded across borders, aided and abetted by such software.
UNATCO -- the first organization with the technology, manpower, and authority to
cope with such threats -- is an idea that is long overdue.
-- Joseph Manderley, Director, UNATCO

Know Your Enemy -- NSF

The National Secessionist Forces (NSF) remain a very real and increasingly
widespread terrorist threat. Ten years ago, in response to the Sporting Weapons
Act of 2042, splinter groups from nearly every state militia refused to
surrender their rifles, grenades, land mines, and other "collectibles"
prohibited by the Act. Unified under the charismatic leadership of Leon Woods,
these isolated fanatics eventually formed the NSF with Woods assuming the rank
of General. Their intended goal: the "liberation" of Washington, Montana,
Oregon, and Northern California.
While Woods died during his infamous "last stand" in 2045, his war machine
continues what can only be termed an occupation of the United States, aided by
an encrypted network designed by dissident computer scientists from San
Francisco and Seattle. Currently, the UNATCO Cryptography Division has had
minimal success in cracking their communications, requiring more direct
intelligence gathering techniques to be utilized.
The U.N. has declared war on the NSF.

Know Your Enemy -- Silhouette

Famous for inserting 20th-century style commercials into the Net broadcast of
the World Cup in 2050, Silhouette favors "feats of spectacle" over violence.
"Printed circuits, part of this nutritious breakfast," the announcer told
children in one of the World Cup commercials. "You ain't mech 'til you eat mech.
[A mech boy chews a memory chip.] Boys who eat organics get stomped by their
posthuman classmates. [Mech boys in UNATCO helmets and metal boots take turns
kicking another boy.]"
Despite their numerous pranks, these intellectuals, artists, and labor
organizers pose a serious threat. They are well-armed and have been linked to
the murders of numerous European politicians and journalists. They will not
hesitate to use lethal force.

Know Your Enemy -- The Triads

UNATCO surveillance of Hong Kong is currently a high priority given the renewed
threat of Chinese organized crime in the form of the Triads. Despite being a
model of prosperity and technological leadership for decades, Hong Kong persists
as a haven for organized crime. The Triads, namely the Luminous Path and Red
Arrow, vie for control of the ten-trillion credit shipping business, much of
which supplies greater Asia with pirated technology, illegal drugs, and weapons.
Most disturbing of all, the Triads preach an ethic of technopiracy that has
found enthusiastic support among small shopkeepers and businessmen who often aid
the gangsters and buy their bootlegged software. Gullible and greedy, this army
of middlemen remain insensitive to how their violations of intellectual property
and copyright laws damage the global information economy.

Know Your Enemy -- Other Threats

UNATCO operatives have identified over 1250 terrorist organizations active in
the world today, some too small to currently present a serious threat, but all
eager to see one or more governments topple.
Groups such as the Templars (Europe) and "X-51" (Western U.S.) will be dealt
with in subsequent volumes of "Know Your Enemy."